In this lesson we're going to fix one little issue
that we're left in accept component. Currently
If we see our own question
and then hit accept button
the answer marked as best answer but let's say
we want to chance another one as best answer
now here we'll have two answers marked as best answer.
So to see the change we need to reload the page
in the last lesson we've looked at how to make use the
vue js custom events. We emitted the deleted event in
child component to the parent component
and then the parent component
listen to  the event and remove the
answer from the answers array
In this case even though it looks simple but it's very
difficult to implement a standard custom events
because if you open the vue developer tools
the accept component is under answers answer and
vote that means when someone hit the accept button
that accept component needs to emit an event to vote component.
Then the vote component continue emitting
the event to answers component
and so on.
So for this situation where the communication between
components is too hard to implement we can make
use a global event bus. To do that
let's switch back over to our code editor. Actually let's
open up our terminal and then create a new branch
to isolate our work git checkout -b lesson-39
and then run web pack npm run watch.
Now let's go to
assets js folder. In here
let's create new file
and I'm going to call it event bus dot
js
Inside this file
firstly let's import the vue js
and then let's define a variable to hold the vue instance
and the last we can export it so that we
can make use it in other javascript file
that's all we need.
We have created the event bus and we can start to use it.
Let's open up accept.vue
and here in the script section let's import our event bus file
then let's get to create method. Here
inside then after ajax post request
successfully sent let's emit an event using the event bus
let's save all  changes and give it a shot.
Reload the page. I get error can't resolve event bus.
Let me see
the file name
event bus
OK
the problem here we need to go up to js folder before
the event bus. We can do that by chance this dot
with double dots. Save ok no error. Reload the page
here
Let's hit the events tab. Now if we hit that check icon
not even being emitted
And here I get error.
event bus is not defined. Here
I defined the event bus with capital E and here I call it with lower e
Let me hit the check icon again.
Here I have accepted event emitted and notice that the
event emitted by a root component even though we
emitted inside accept component.
Now let's listen to this event and do something.
I think the best way to listen to the accepted event
is in the created hook because we will be able
to access reactive data and events the templates and
virtual DOM have not yet been mounted or rendered so
created
and then inside here we can listen to accepted
event like so event bus on accepted
arrow function which contains id as argument.
Inside this will simply match the id that we get from
the event payload with the current answer id
that this will result a boolean value and we
can then assign it to the is best property.
So initially is best stores the value from answers is best.
But when the component is listen to accepted event
the is best will be replaced with a value that came
from here.
All right let's save the change and give it another shot.
Let me hit the check icon
now you'll see there's only one answer
marked as best answer as we expect.
Let me try one more time
OK great.
We have successfully fixed a little issue on the accept
component and we've learned how to make use of
global oven bus that allows us to communicate
between components much easier.
That's it
let's commit all changes
to our git repo and I'll see you in next lesson.